CM’s Meritorious Award for the wards of Tripura Police & TSR Personals Eligibility (as per guidelines): SL No. Eligibility Criteria 1. Must be a ward of Tripura Police & TSR Personals 2. ❖ Must be a toppers in Madhayamik (1st, 2nd & 3rd at State Level and at 1st & 2nd at District Level) Senior Secondary (1st at State Level and at 1st at District Level) 3. ❖ All the toppers of TBSE, CBSE & ICSE are awarded under this scheme Benefit : Examination Name Position Amount State Level District Level Madhyamik 1st 1st ₹. 11,000/- 2nd 2nd ₹. 10,000/- 3rd Nil ₹. 9,000/- Senior Secondary 1st (each Stream) 1st (1 from Science & Commerce & 1 From Humanities Stream) ₹. 11,000/- Supporting Documents: 1. As BMS is ration card-based system, only (a) Clause above may be considered. System will capture the RC no. and map beneficiary with RC member ID. No need to upload document. 2. Following Documents required to be uploaded: a) Bonafied certificate issued by the School b) Madhyamik/ Senior Secondary Admit Card c) Madhyamik/ Senior Secondary Mark sheet d) Madhyamik/ Senior Secondary Passing Certificate e) Selected list of CM Meritorious Award ASSISTED MODE:- Entry Process for Department Level Manual . BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form Submission Procedure) Live/Production URL:https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ and Click on Department Login Now Maker will enter the Login ID(Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha ( e.g Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password then click on Forgot Password→ Enter the Click mobile number/Email Id→ One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number →Create a new Password /Change the Password. 2.Scheme Selection Select Scheme (schemes of concern welfare department) from the Dropdown. 3.Select Office Office name will be the School name of the concern Maker (Police/TSR Dept), Now Click on Select Button. Click 4.Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Click Click CM merit award TSR Personal 5.Assisted Mode Form Click onASSISTED MODE FORM from menu. 6.Scheme Enrolment To start the Enrollment, Maker (Police/TSR Deppt) needs to enter the 12 Digit Ration card number first. After entering the RC number there are two options available to operate:- Click 1) Fetch Previous Application (Renewal/Checking Student’s previous year application). 2) Search (Fresh Entry) 1.1. Enrolment (Renewal): Enter the 12-digit Ration Card No. of the student and Click onFetch Previous Application. If the student applied for the same Scheme previous year then details will be fetched from database automatically. Now maker need to recheck his/her details and if any mandatory field is missing then fill up the same. Most importantly upload the Marksheet,Bonafide certificate,Admit Card,Madhyamik Passing certificate ,Selected List of CM meritorious award and other additional information i.e MadhyamikPassingYear,TotalMarks,Percentage,Board(TBSC,CBSC,ICSE), Examination Name,Marks obtained,Grade,Position and other required details. Clic After filling the mandatory details next click on the Declaration checkbox and next Save the Form Successfully. Click N.B: After Clicking Fetch previous Application Button if system shows Previous Application Not Found then go for Fresh Enrolment (Click on Search). 6.2. Fresh Enrolment: As it has been found that the there is no application available with this ration card previously so the student will apply for the scheme first time ( Fresh Application). So for fresh enrollment enter the 12 Digit Ration card number and click on search System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members foun d in t he given Ration Card. Maker (Police/TSR Deppt ) needs to Select Student’s name from the list of members. Click If name is found then Select the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory . So Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information , Scheme Specific Document Area and Scheme Payment Related Information) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Click N.B:For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents,only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form. 2. Assisted Mode List: Maker (Police/TSR dept) can review all the submitted application list (Fresh & Renewal) at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. Click Click From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. 3. Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Ensign verified Beneficiary List. Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Click Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. Click After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is completed successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again. Click