Moulana Abul Kalam Azad Merit Award for Madhyamik and H.S (+2 Stage) passed Students A. Eligibility (as per guidelines): 1) Belongs to Minorities Community. 2) Domicile of Tripura. 3) Class XI (Benefits Rs.2500/-) & XII (Benefits Rs.3500/-) 4) Student must secure 60% or above marks in Madhyamik and H.S (+2) Stage Examination. B. Supporting Documents: 1) As B MS is ration card-based System ( Only Ration Card Number is Required). System will capture the RC no. and map beneficiary with RC member ID. No need to upload Ration Card. 2) Madhyamik Marksheet. (pdf format) 3) H.S (+2) Marksheet. (pdf format) 4) Bank Passbook. (pdf format) 5) Admit Card. (pdf format) 6) PRTC. (pdf format) 7) Photograph. (image format i.e. png/jpeg/png) 8) Self-Declaration Minority Certificate. (pdf format) BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form Submission Procedure) Live / Production URL: https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ and Click on Department Login Click Now Maker will enter the Login ID (Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha (e.g. Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password, then click on Forgot Password→ Enter the mobile number/Email Id → One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number →Create a new Password /Change the Password. 2. Scheme Selection Select Scheme (schemes of concern welfare department) from the Dropdown. Click 3. Select Office Office name will be the School name of the concern Maker (INO), Now Click on Select Button. 4. Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Clic k Clic k Moulana Abul Kalam Azad Merit Award for Madhyamik & H.S 5. Assisted Mode Form Click on ASSISTED MODE FORM from MENU. Click 6. Scheme Enrolment To start the E nrollment, Maker (INO) need s to enter the 12 Digit Ration card number first. After entering the RC number Click on Search. System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members foun d in the given Ration Card. Maker (INO) needs to Select Student’s name from the list of members. If Student name is found then Select the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. Click These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory . So Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown Online Form page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information , Scheme Specific Document Area) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Click N.B: For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents, only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. Click At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form. 7. Assisted Mode List: Maker (INO) can review all the submitted application list (Fresh & Renewal) at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. Click Click From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. 8. Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Esign verified Beneficiary List. Click Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. Click After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is completed successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again.