Scheme Name: Asangathita Sramik Sahayika Prakalpa Eligibility (as per guidelines): Sl. No. Eligibility Criteria 1. Any unorganized worker in Tripura between 21 and 60 years of age. 2. New Registration is not done. New registration has been stopped after a Gazette Notification regarding this. Only existing beneficiaries between the ages of 40+ to 60 years are continuing the scheme. 3. Beneficiary must have his/her Scheme Account with Tripura State Co-operative Bank. Benefits: Component Type Beneficiary Type Time Period (Monthly/Quarterly/Half- Yearly/Yearly) Benefit Amounts Remarks Monthly Subscription Existing Beneficiary (40+ to 60 years Age) listed by Labour Department Monthly Rs 50 per month Tripura State Cooperative Bank sends monthly list of deposit of ASSP subscription by the existing beneficiaries to Labour Directorate. Thereafter, Labour Directorate receives matching amount in the form of Government share through requisition demand from Treasury and that amount is sent to T.S.C. Bank for depositing in individual beneficiary’s account. Closure on Maturity / Pre-maturity / Death Do Do Total Maturity Amount with interest Maturity Amount will be credited to beneficiaries who are eligible. Onboarding in BMS: As a pilot, only payment for Closure on Maturity / Pre-maturity / Death will be onboarded. Workflow issued by Dept.: Maker Labour Inspector at Block Level Checker Designated Official at the Directorate Approver Designated Official at the Directorate *Maker will upload the list of Beneficiaries and Details who are eligible for the ASSP Scheme in Assisted Mode. Maker can Claim the Amount which will be credited to the beneficiary for Maturity of the scheme. * Both Checker and Approver can modify the Claim Amount. Supporting Documents: 1. Tripura State Co-operative Bank Scheme Passbook Online Form: Sl. No. Field Sl. No. Field Common Fields 1 Ration Card No. 2 Name 3 Father’s Name 4 Mother’s Name 5 Gender 6 Social Category 7 Date of Birth 8 District 9 Sub-division 10 Block 11 GP/Ward/VC 12 Pin Code 13 Bank Account No. 14 Name as per Bank Passbook 15 Bank Name 16 IFS Code 17 Photograph Scheme Specific Fields 18 Closure on (Dropdown – values: Maturity / Pre-Maturity / Death) 19 Age (auto-calculate based on DoB) 20 Claim Amount The amount will be credited in the bank account details given on the online form (sl. no. 13 to 16) as mentioned on in the table above. Payment will be done through NACH mode from BMS.