Merit Award Scholarship to ST Meritorious Students A. Eligibility (as per guidelines): 1) Domicile of Tripura. 2) Belongs to ST Community. 3) Students promoted to higher classes from class VI to HS+2 with 60% and above marks. B. Supporting Documents: 1) As B MS is ration card-based System ( Only Ration Card Number is required). System will capture the RC no. and map beneficiary with RC member ID. No need to upload Ration Card. 2) Last examination Passing Marksheet or Progress report of last passed class (i.e. student promoted to class VII from class VI, Shall Provide mark sheet of Class VI so on) (pdf format). [Mandatory Document] 3) ST Certificate. (pdf format). [Mandatory Document] 4) Photograph (image format i.e. png/jpeg/png). N.B.: File size should not be more than 2MB BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form Submission Procedure) Live / Production URL: https://bms.tripura.gov.in 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in and Click on Department Login Click Now Maker will enter the Login ID (Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha (e.g. Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password, then click on Forgot Password→ Enter the mobile number/Email Id → One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number →Create a new Password /Change the Password. 2. Scheme Selection Select Scheme (schemes of concern welfare department) from the Dropdown. Merit Award to the meritorious ST students (FY 2024-2025) Click 3. Select Office Office name will be the School name of the concern Maker (INO), Now Click on Select Button. 4. Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Click Click 5. Assisted Mode Form Click on ASSISTED MODE FORM from menu. Click 6. Scheme Enrolment To start the E nrollment, Maker (INO) need s to enter the 12 Digit Ration card number first. After entering the RC number there ar e two options available to operate: - 1) Fetch Previous Application (Renewal/Checking Student’s previous year application). 2) Search (Fresh Entry) 6.1. Enrolment (Renewal): Enter the 12-digit Ration Card No. of the student and Click on Fetch Previous Application. If the student applied for the same Scheme previous year, then details will be fetched from database automatically. Click Now maker need to recheck his/her details and if any mandatory field is missing then fill up the same. Most importantly upload the new Marksheet (Last exam passing Marksheet), ST Certificate and other mandatory supporting documents the class and other required details. After filling the mandatory details next click on the Declaration checkbox and next Save the Form Successfully. N.B: After Clicking Fetch Previous Application Button if system shows Previous Application Not Found then go for Fresh Enrolment (Click on Search). 6.2. Fresh Enrolment: As it has been found that the there is no application available with this ration card previously so the student will apply for the scheme first time ( Fresh Application). So, for fresh enrollment enter the 12 Digit Ration card number and click on Click search System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members foun d in the given Ration Card. Maker (INO) needs to S elect Student’s name from the list of members. If name is found then Select the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. Click These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory . So Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information , Scheme Specific Document Area and Scheme Payment Related Information ) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Click Click N.B: For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents, only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form. 7. Assisted Mode List: Maker (INO) can review all the submitted application list (Fresh & Renewal) at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. Click Click From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. 8. Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Ensign verified Beneficiary List. Click Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. Click After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is completed successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again. Click