Matsya Sahayak Yojana Eligibility (as per guidelines): Sl. No. Eligibility Criteria 1. a. Category-I: people catch fish from open water bodies like Reservoir, river, small stream, barrage, beel & farmers pond etc and sale it in market for their livelihood. b. Category-II: Small fish seller –People sale fish in rural / urban markets for their livelihood. c. Category-II: Fish vendors- sale fish in rural / urban area through vending for their livelihood. Benefits: Beneficiary Time Period Benefit Amounts Remarks Individual Fishermen Yearly Rs. 6000/- Under this scheme, financial assistance will be given to 15000 nos. of fishermen @ Rs.6000/ fisherman. Supporting Document: 1. As BMS is ration card-based system, only (a) Clause above may be considered. System will capture the RC no. and map beneficiary with RC member ID. No need to upload document. 2. Scheme Specific Document  Application Format ASSISTED MODE:-Entry Process for Department Level User Manual BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form Submission Procedure) Live/ProductionURL:https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms / 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ and Click on Department Login Now Maker will enter the Login ID(Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha ( eg. Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password then click on Forgot Password Enter the mobile number/Email Id One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number Create a new Password /Change the Password. 1. Scheme Selection Select Scheme (schemes of concern welfare department) from the Dropdown. 1. Select Office Office name will be the Department name of the concern Maker , Now Click on Select Button. Click 1. Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Matsya Sahayak Yojana Fishery Dept. Click Click Assisted Mode Form Click onASSISTED MODE FORM from Scheme Enrolment To start the Enrollment, Maker needs to enter the 12 Digit Ration card number first. After entering the RC number there are two options available to operate:- 1) Search (Fresh Entry) Click After filling the mandatory details next click on the Declaration checkbox and next Save the Form Successfully. Click Fresh Enrolment: As it has been found that the there is no application available with this ration card previously so the beneficiary will apply for the scheme first time (Fresh Application). So for fresh enrollment enter the 12 Digit Ration card number and click on search System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members found in the given Ration Card. Maker needs to Select Beneficiary name from the list of members. Click If name is found then Select the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory. So Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information, Scheme Specific Document Area and Scheme Payment Related Information) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Click N.B:For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents,only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form Click 7.Assisted Mode List: Maker can review all the submitted application list (Fresh) at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. Click Click From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. 8.Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Ensign verified Beneficiary List. Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. Click Click After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is completed successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again. Click