Page | 1 Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme A. Eligibility (as per guidelines): B. Benefits: C. Supporting Documents: 1) As B MS is ration card-based System ( Only Ration Card Number is required). System will capture the RC no. and map beneficiary with RC member ID. No need to upload Ration Card. Page | 2 2) Achievement Certificate issued by recognized organization of different level competition as per eligibility criteria of Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme. (pdf format). 3) Photograph (image format i.e. png/jpeg/png). N.B.: File size should not be more than 2MB. Page number: (3- 12): Citizen Manual. Page number: (13-23): Departmental Manual (Assisted Mode User). Page | 3 Citizen Manual Visit the Beneficiary Management System (BMS) portal over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in and click on ‘Citizen’ link. Click on “Beneficiary Schemes” to see the launched schemes available for enrolment. Find the “Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme” schemes from the list. The scheme can be searched using ‘Search’ field given on top-right of the scheme list. Page | 4 Scheme specific notification, guidelines, FAQ etc. can be downloaded from here. Click on ‘Enroll’ button. This will open a page with scheme details. Click on ‘Proceed’ to continue. First time user shall click on “New User? Register” button to get registered on BMS portal. Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme Page | 5 Enter full name, email id and mobile no. and click on Next. BMS portal will send OTP to the given email id and mobile no. Page | 6 Enter the OTPs received, and click on Submit to complete your registration. Once registration is completed, you can login with your registered email id / mobile no. as user id. Enter you registered email id / mobile no. and click on Next. System will send OTP to registered email id and mobile no. Enter the same and click on Submit. Page | 7 On successful OTP authentication, you will be entered into the system to fill-up online application form. Applicant needs to select his/her domicile status as shown below. Clicking on Yes, applicant has to enter the 12-digit Ration Card No. and Search. System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members found in the given Ratio n Card. The applicant needs to select his/her name from the list of members. Page | 8 If name is found then ‘Select’ the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. Page | 9 These fields are option al but Bank Accou nt No. and IFS Code are mandatory. Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. Clicking on Save, below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields and upload required documents. For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents, only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. Page | 10 On successful submission, acknowledgement slip will be generated. Page | 11 The acknowledge slip will be available under Scheme List for future reference. Clicking on Home link, the application status can be viewed. Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme Page | 12 The submitted application will be available with the respective institute level official for verification. Resubmission Process: This process is the option to resubmit Documents/Details of Student requested by the Higher Authority Checker. If some cases Student upload wrong data or documents, Higher Authority Checker can raise query by marking Defect ed application. In that case a message will arrive at registered applicant registered Mobile Number to resubmit their application. After Login into their account, they will find the option to resubmit the defected application with a proper reason/requirement from Checker. Then they have to click the Proceed button there. And then again, the previous form of Scheme Enrollment page will appear where applicant will again upload or provide the required Documents/Details for which this application has been raised defected by the Checker. And after Upload of correct Documents, he/she will press the Next Button to complete the Resubmission Process. Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme Page | 13 BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form Submission Procedure) Live / Production URL: https://bms.tripura.gov.in 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in and Click on Department Login Click Page | 14 Now Maker will enter the Login ID (Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha (e.g. Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password, then click on Forgot Password Enter the mobile number/Email Id  One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number Create a new Password /Change the Password. 2. Scheme Selection Select Scheme (schemes of concern welfare department) from the Dropdown. Mukhya Mantri Pratibhashali Purasker Scheme. 3. Select Office Click Page | 15 Office name will be the name of maker’s office. Now Click on Select Button. 4. Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Clic k Clic k Page | 16 5. Assisted Mode Form Click on ASSISTED MODE FORM from menu. Clic k Page | 17 6. Scheme Enrolment Enter the 12 Digit Ration card number and click on search System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members foun d in the given Ration Card. Maker (INO) needs to Select Student’s name from the list of members. If name is found then Select the name which will display personal details and address details fetched from Ration Card database. Clic k Page | 18 These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory . So Enter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information, Scheme Specific Document Area and Scheme Payment Related Information) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Clic k Page | 19 N.B: For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents, only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form. Clic k Page | 20 Clic k Clic k Page | 21 7. Assisted Mode List: Maker (INO) can review all the submitted application list (Fresh & Renewal) at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. Clic k Page | 22 From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. 8. Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Ensign verified Beneficiary List. Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Clic k Clic k Page | 23 Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is completed successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again. Clic k