Mukhyamantri Janajati Bikash Yojana(MJBY) A. Eligibility (as per guidelines): 1) Domicile of Tripura. 2) Must be belonging to ST community. 3) Holding AAY/AAY(Bru)/ PHH/PG category Ration Card. 4) Have not received benefit of more than Rs. 20,000/ - from ARD scheme in the last 3 years. 5) One benefit per ration card holder . B. Supporting Documents: 1) Ration Card.(File Format: pdf) 2) ST certificate. (File Format: pdf) 3) Self Declaration with signature of the beneficiary. (File Format: pdf) 4) Bank Passbook. (File Format: pdf) 5) Photograph. (image format i.e.jpg/jpeg/png ). N.B.: File size should not be more than 2MB BMS Maker Manual (Assisted Mode Form submission Procedure) Live / Production URL: https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ 1. Login: Visit the Beneficiary Management System (Portal) over Internet at https://bms.tripura.gov.in/bms/ and Click on Department Login Click Now Maker will enter the Login ID(Mobile number/Email Id) and the Password and put the captcha ( eg. Answer the following question 5X3=15) followed by Click on Login Button. N.B.: If Maker forgets the password then click on Forgot Password  Enter the mobile number/Email Id  One OTP will be sent to the given mobile number Create a new Password /Change the Password. 2. Scheme Selection Select Scheme (Mukhyamantri Janajati Bikash Yojana (FY:202 4-2025)) from the Dropdown. Click 3. Select Office Office name will be the School name of the concern Maker, Now Click on Select Button. 4. Application Submission Go to Menu on Top left corner right below the emblem. Click Click 5. Assisted Mode Form Click on ASSISTED MODE FORM from menu. Click 6. Scheme Enrolment To start the Enrollment, Maker needs to enter the 12 Digit Ration card number first and click on Search. Now System will search the Ration Card database and display the list of family members foun d in the given Ration Card. Maker needs to Select the beneficiary’s name from the list of members. Click If name is found then Select the name which will display personal details , Economic Status and address details fetched from Ration Card database. These fields (Personal Details, Address Details) are optional no need to fill up. But Bank Account No. and IFS Code are mandatory . So En ter the bank account no., IFS Code, tick the declaration and click on Save. After Clicking on Save below shown page will appear. Fill up all mandatory fields (Basic Info, Address Area, Account Information , Scheme Specific Document Area and Scheme Specific Document Area ) some details are already fetched from RC next upload required documents. Click N.B: For photograph, only image file (jpg, jpeg etc.) upto 2 MB is allowed. For all other documents, only PDF upto 2 MB is allowed. Click At last tick the declaration check box then Save the Form. Click Click 7. Assisted Mode List: Maker can review the entire submitted application list at ASSISTED MODE LIST menu. From the list Maker can View the Applications at View Application for review Purpose. Click 8. Resubmission Of Defective Applications If Checker makes any Application Defective then maker needs to resubmit the Application. To get the Defective application list click on Ensign verified Beneficiary List. Click on View Defective Beneficiary List Click Click Now maker will see the Remarks (Reason given by checker) and will take Action by clicking the specific button according the remarks. After doing the required correction click on Update details. Here the Resubmission is com pleted successfully. Application form will be moved to the Checker login again.