Scheme: Financial Assistance to poor ST patient under Nucleus Budget Scheme Eligibility: i. Belongs to ST community ii. Domicile of Tripura iii. Income max. limit Rs. 2.50 lakh per annum iv. Suffering from other diseases/ disabilities Benefits: Financial assistance from Rs. 1500 to up to Rs. 25,000 as mentioned below. Sl. No. Sanctioning Authority Sanctioning Power (Rs.) 1 SDM / BDO / DWO 1500 2 DM & Collector 6000 3 Director 6000 4 Secretary 15000 5 Minister 25000 Frequency: Yearly once as and when required. Recommended Workflow in BMS: i. Maker: Applicant (Patient/ family member) or Section In -charge Officer at Directorate of Tribal Welfare, Govt. of Tripura will apply in the BMS portal through Hybrid Mode (Citizen or Assisted mode). Maker will also enter the Claim Amount. In this case, online applications by citizens , it will always be landed at the Section In-charge, Tribal Welfare Deptt. ii. Checker: Section Officer / Branch Officer of the concerned section at the Directorate of Tribal Welfare, Govt. of Tripura will verify all documents and will further process the beneficiary list of details for approval in the BMS portal. iii. Approver: Director, Tribal Welfare. Approver will approve the beneficiaries and push the list to Treasury in the BMS portal for payment through online. Treasury (DDO) will automatically process payment to the list of beneficiaries through CTOS. The Approver can modify the Claim Amount submitted by the Applicant. Going with the recommended workflow may need amendment in relevant guidelines. Supporting Documents: 1. May fetch income certificate from e -District application when integrated. Meanwhile, income certificate is to be uploaded. It is must for APL Category. BPL not required. 2. RC Upload 3. Medical history (prescription from Govt. hospital, medicine bills) or referral to outside State for better treatment. 4. May fetch ST certificate from e-District application when integrated. Meanwhile, ST certificate is to be uploaded. Online Form: Sl. Field Sl. Field Common Fields 1 Ration Card No. 2 Name of the patient 3 Father’s Name 4 Mother’s Name 5 Gender 6 Social Category (APL/ BPL/ ADHOC/AAY/ OTHERS) 7 Date of Birth 8 District 9 Sub-division 10 Block 11 GP/ Ward/ VC 12 Pin Code 13 Bank Account No. 14 Name as per Bank Passbook 15 Bank Name 16 IFS Code 17 Branch name 18 Photograph Scheme Specific Fields 19 Assistance for (Reimbursement/ Referral) 20 Income (Rs.) / Annum (fetch from e-District) 21 Hospital Name/ name of the prescribing Doctor 21 Claim Amount (Rs.)