DBT Scheme of PWD (R&B) Scheme: Stipend for Apprenticeship Training for pass -out Engineering (Degree/diploma) Candidates of Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering. 1. Registration in NATS portal and receipt of application in BMS portal: The engineering Graduate/ Diploma holders have to get enrolled /registered through on -line portal of “National Apprenticeship Training Scheme (NATS)” instituted by Board of Apprenticeship Training/Practical Training under Ministry of Human Resources & Development, Government of India. The receipt of applications in BMS Portal will be as per following schedule: (i) 1st January to 31st January for the candidates to enroll for the session starting from 1st April. (ii) 1st July to 31 st July for the candidates to enroll for the session starting from 1 st October. 2.Eligibility: (i) A person holds (a) degree in engineering in Civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineering or technology granted by- (i) a statutory University, or (ii) an institution empowered to grant such degree by an Act of Parliament; (b) has passed the graduateship examination of professional bodies recognized by the Central Government in Civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineering, or (c) holds the qua lifications which exempt him from Sections A and B examinations of the Institution of Engineers (India). i. A person who holds a diploma in engineering from an Institute, accredited by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) or any Technical University in Civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineering. Eligible to apply within three years of passing the final examination. (ii) Must be a permanent resident of Tripura 3. Period of Apprenticeship Training : The period of training will be for a duration of one year. There will be 2 (two) sessions. 1 st session will be started from 1 st April to 31 st March and 2 nd session will be started from 1 st October to 30th September of next year. 4. Stipend: The amount of stipend is fixed as per Apprentices Act, 1961 with latest amendment and will be revised as per provision in the Act. As per provision in the Apprentices Act, 1961 with latest amendment, PWD will pay 50% of the stipend based on attendance and the remaining 50% will be paid by the Board of Practical Training on the basis of the report, to be submitted by the department through on -line. Degree engineers are entitled to get ` 4984/- per month and diploma holders are entitled to get ` 3542/- per month. 5.Work Flow: 1. Maker: Candidates 2. Checker: Nodal Officer2, PWD (R&B) 3. Approver: Nodal Officer 1, PWD (R&B) 6. Supporting Documents (To be uploaded): 1. System will capture RC no and map beneficiary with RC Member ID No. No need to upload document. 2. Degree/ Diploma Pass Certificate. 3. NATS Registration 4. PRTC 5. Caste Certificate, if any 6. Passport size Photograph 7. Online Form: Sl No. Field Sl No. Field COMMON FIELD 1. Ration Card 2. Name 3. Father’s name 4. Mother’s name 5. Gender 6. Social Category 7. Date of birth 8. District 9. Sub-division 10. Block/MC 11. GP/Ward/VC 12. PIN 13. Bank Account number 14. Name as per Bank Passbook 15. Bank Name 16. IFS Code 17. Photograph SCHEME SPECIFIC 18. Qualification: Degree/ Diploma 19. Name of the Institution from which passed 20. Year of passing 21. Discipline: Civil/Mechanical/Electrical 22. Grade/Percentage 23. Registration No under NATS 24. Preferred place of training in order of preference (3 nos) - Name of the Revenue Sub - division may be mentioned 8. Declaration: I do hereby declare that the information furnished by me is true to the best of my knowledge. I also declare that I have gone through all the terms and conditions as laid down in the “Apprenticeship Policy of PWD, Tripura, 2020 ” and will abide by that. I shall be duty bound to sign the contract document, if finally selected for the training.